>> Scott Moss: Async code, so
I've been talking about async code.
And if you've ever written
JavaScript in the browser,
you already know that
JavaScript is asynchronous.
Who here needs a primer?
I'm gonna do it anyway.
Let's do a primer on async JavaScript and
how that works.
Without going too deep, cuz I'm sure,
I could talk about this for a week,
that's how deep it is.
But I'm just gonna talk about it for
a little bit.
So if you've ever used any other
language like Ruby, or Python, or
anything like that, right,
it's multi-threaded, right?
So you have many threads on your machine,
and let's say you have a server in Python,
every request that comes in is
gonna be its own thread, right?
And your code is gonna run
from top to bottom, right?
It's gonna go from this line,
to this line, to this line.
It's gonna be blocking and
with many threads.
JavaScript's not that way, JavaScript's
one thread with an event loop.
Now something you need to figure
out if that's bad or not [LAUGH].
But it enables one thing but it the kind
of sucks the life out of something else.
So it enables high concurrency,
because of that,
you can register many things
to do at once basically.
So because it's asynchronous and
you can do things in the background,
you can have many operations
coming in like, okay, okay.
You want me to do this, you want me
to do this, you want me to do this,
you want me to do this, and
it will just like cool.
I'm going to do all this and
continue to go to the next line,
while it's doing other stuff
in the background, right?
And whatever is happening in
the background it doesn't really matter.
It can be JavaScript,
it can be a PythonScript,
it can be literally whatever.
But it's happening in the background
outside of the thread, and
it's this event loop thing, and
that's how JavaScript works.
So the way you get notified about
these things are callbacks,
promises, or async await,
all these different things.
So that's how JavaScript works.
And that's been the way in the browser
pretty much since Google Maps came out
when they invented, they came out
with Ajax and stuff like that.
So that's been the way forever, and you've
always been doing that in a browser.
If you ever made a call to the API
in the browser you used async code.
If you ever did a set timeout,
you used async code.
If you ever did any Listener or
any DOM element ever, that was async code.
It's the same in Node.
The only difference is, and
we'll get to it in a little more detail,
but it's how your app is being used,
right?
On the browser, if everybody
here opened up the same website,
you're all gonna have a different
instance of the same app.
Your JavaScript's not gonna interact
with this person's JavaScript,
unless you're doing some stuff there.
But yeah, it's just its own
instances running on your machine.
If you've got one server, every client's
hitting that one server, right?
So it's a little different, so
now you actually have to consider
asynchronous code because
it could affect your app.
It could kill it, it could cause
problems you were not aware of.
Yeah, so, node.js is single threaded and
event-based, just like the browser.
Like I said, unlike the browser, your
node.js app will be shared by all clients.
And this is mostly true for APIs.
Even then, at the end of the day you still
have one machine that's gonna be handling
many requests.
And if you have one piece of code
that's blocking, like reading a file
synchronously, then every request
has to wait for that to be done.
It can't do anything else.
It can't register a new task cuz it's
waiting on this infinite while loop that
you created, that's never-ending.
So this is why asynchronous
code is very important to Node,
because without it kind of fails.
Okay, so again you have to
consider CPU-intensive tasks that
block a single thread, so while loops.